.TH topoInit 3 "4/23/2018" " " ""
.SH NAME
topoInit \-  Initialize the hardware topology package 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
int topoInit(int isVerbose, topoinfo_t **topo_p)
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETER
.PD 0
.TP
.B isVerbose 
- If true, provide verbose output to stdout about the operation
of the routines.
.PD 1

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETER
.PD 0
.TP
.B topo_p 
- On successful exit, points to a 
.I topoinfo_t
structure.  This
lists the topology of the system in which the calling process is executing
starting from processor cores and working out.  See notes below.
.PD 1

.SH COLLECTIVE
This routine is collective over all processes in the job.  It is not
necessarily synchronizing, but some systems may require collective
operations in order to return the requested data.

.SH RETURN VALUE
0 on success, non-zero on failure.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.PD 0
.TP
.B TOPO_CORESPERCHIP 
- If set to an integer value (as a string), then every
socket (processor chip) is considered to have this many cores.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B TOPO_CHIPSPERNODE 
- If set to an integer value (as a string), then every
node is considered to have this many chips (sockets).
.PD 1

.SH NOTES
The topo package is designed for massively parallel systems with regular
networks, such as a torus or mesh.  If the hwloc package is available,
this package can use hwloc to provide some information about the node
topology.  The 
.I topoinfo_t
structure provides a list of entries, starting
with the finest grain (typically a core, but could be a chip or node if
more detailed information is not available).

.SH SYSTEMS SUPPORTED

Note - only IBM, Cray, and HWLOC currently implemented.

.PD 0
.TP
.B IBM Blue Gene/Q 
- Provides interconnect mesh coordinates
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B Cray XE6 and XK7 
- Provides interconnent mesh coordinates and core number;
with 
.I TOPO_CORESPERCHIP
correctly set, also provides socket number
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B Miscellaneous MPI programs that have 
.I MPI_Comm_split_type
\&.
This
- routine may be used to determine a topology based on processes that can
share memory.  This is represented as a 
.I TOPO_NODE
\&.

.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B Miscellaneous Unix systems 
- With hwloc, provides node information.
if 
.I sched_getcpu
is available, this is used to find the core number
(use the environment variable 
.I TOPO_CORESPERCHIP
to identify to which
chip in a multi-chip node a core belongs).
Without hwloc, the code uses the hostname to identify processes that
share the same hostname, and identifies these as belonging to the same
.I TOPO_NODE
\&.

.PD 1

.SH THREAD SAFETY
If called by multiple threads, they must provide the same value for
.I isVerbose
\&.

